The Client's name was the Gaming Room and they asked us to design a web-based platform for their established popular game available on Android platform. We had to take the existing game and implement it so that it could be available to play on many different platforms.
While working on the documentation, I excelled in delivering my Executive Summary, listing out the design constraints, and providing a model for the domain.
Being able to visualize the structure through the design document greatly assisted me in developing the code for the project. What especially helped me was the use of UML diagrams as they essentially spell out what is inside the code structure.
One part of the document that I would like to revise would be the Development Requirements section as I made a few mistakes in that section by not going into more detail especially when discussing IDEs. I would revise it by adding in more details regarding Server side, Client side, and Development Tools.
Ensuring the customer is happy with the end product is one of the most important aspects to working on development. Ensuring you can translate what the client needs and wants into development is a critical part of being a developer, as your role here is much like that of translator or liasion. It is important to understand what the client wants, while also having have some level of understanding on how to actually turn their ideas into a product they are expecting and are happy with. If the developer does not understand what the client wants, then they are left unsatisfied and more than likely will not return to you for future development needs.
When designing software, a strategy that I used was planning my project out before writing any lines of code. The use of UML diagrams helped formulate how the structure of the project will look like and utilizing Scrum strategies allowed me to work on the project in chunks rather than one massive pile of work. Scrum strategies allowed me to make quick and easy changes to my project when they were needed and helped me understand what process that I needed to work on next.
